---
layout: post
title: "QA - 201807"
date: 2018-07-16
---

Q1 -  we use keyfile login to ubuntn VMs launched by openStack,   
  mobaXterm accepts *.pem, Putty accepts *.ppk.    
  following is to enable root SSH login:   
sed -i 's/PermitRootLogin.*/PermitRootLogin yes/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config  
sed -i 's/PasswordAuthentication.*/PasswordAuthentication yes/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config  
service sshd restart  
echo -e "<rootPassword>\n<rootPassword>" | passwd root  
     
Q2 - kubectl get pods  returns message "error: You must be logged in to the server (Unauthorized)"  
step1, check config   
cat ~/.kube/config  
steo2, check kubelet log   
journalctl -u kubelet  
docker ps | egrep kubelet   # or check kubelet container log, depends on how it is installed.   
docker logs <container-id>  

Q3 - search a pattern in current and sub directories,   
     display couple of lines after a specific pattern   
     following is a command to show inter-pod dependencies:    
grep -r initContainers . -A 6   

Q4 - sometimes there are hidden characters when copy from windows to Linux   
vi resequence.sh   # shows normal content   
./resequence.sh    # shows command not found   
dos2unix resequence.sh     
./resequence.sh    # works fine this time   
   
Q5 - what is the difference between these -?   
 {{if .Values.liveness.enabled}}  
 {{- if .Values.nodeSelector }}  
 {{- if and .Values.persistence.enabled (not .Values.persistence.existingClaim) -}}  
A- refer to https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/docs/chart_template_guide/control_structures.md   
When the template engine runs, it removes the contents inside of {{ and }}, but it leaves the remaining whitespace exactly as is.  
The curly brace syntax of template declarations can be modified with special characters to tell the template engine to chomp whitespace.   
{{- (with the dash and space added) indicates that whitespace should be chomped left,   
while -}} means whitespace to the right should be consumed. Be careful! Newlines are whitespace!  
Make sure there is a space between the - and the rest of your directive. {{- 3 }} means "trim left whitespace and print 3" while {{-3}} means "print -3". 

<div id="container"></div>  
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://imsun.github.io/gitment/style/default.css">  
<script src="https://imsun.github.io/gitment/dist/gitment.browser.js"></script>  
<script>  
var gitment = new Gitment({  
  //id: '<%= page.title.replace(/[^\w\s]/gi, '').substring(0, 49) %>' , optional   
  owner: 'JasmineOttawa',   
  repo: 'https://github.com/JasmineOttawa/JasmineOttawa.github.io',  
  oauth: {  
    client_id: '903594063a68039aa0f6',  
    client_secret: '04eef378ab048ea3c0d86fafa7f6609bf4a4735f',  
  },  
})  
gitment.render('container')  
</script>
